# Opinion piece
 
As immigration is a central concern in the current British political world, it is worth exploring the arguments used and fighting unfunded popular beliefs.
Nersine Malik wrote for the Gardian an analysis on the subject, exposing the shift in the political opinion about immigration, and how misinformation is helping it. For him, the focus of major rightwind medias – often disconnected from the reality of this question – on the topic, and the access to biased information it caused has yield to a growing number of anti-immigration activism, as well as a broad integration of anti-immigration policies in various political discourses in order to get more votes.

Although this article is not strogly polarized, I nontheless share a similar point of view: the predominant and not always relevant activism seems a bit absurd.
The world was divided into countries in the aftermath of a complex geopolitical scene but the border between them are always arbitrary. Someone living on one side only differs from anyone on the other side by its birth location. Seeing such inequalities of threatment between the two sides of a border is outstanding in my mind. I can not understand how a political figure can have the power to decide on the right of a people to enter some country based on wether he or she wants it.

How can activists be proud to promote a so called solution based on deportation of illegal and legal immigrants ? And this question is even more tricky as immigration was welcomed and encouraged for a long period. In fact, foreign workers from allover the commonwealth played an important role in rebuilding the UK economy and filling the workforce shortage after the end of WWII. About a million of them entered the UK during this period. Later, when the UK joined the European Union (formerly ), the labour party, then in power in the country, welcomed a huge number of eastern-countries immigrants and integrated them in the economy.

However, Nersine Malik’s article do not tackles how the requested anti-immigration policies can be applied: border control, asylum processing, rescue responsability and other governance questions must be debated too. These are costly, can be legally hard to put into place and must ensure correct treatment of affected people. I think it may be worth to focus first on developping practical alternative, like simplifying the administrative processes for work and family reunification, speeding up asylum grants and investing in integration programmes. Such actions will reduce friction while accepting immigrants and may be help to reduce the irritation expressed by a segment of the population.
